# **US202**

##  Conventions used
| **Naming convention** | **Example** |
|:-----|:------|
| **Pascal Case** <br> |  HumiditySensor |
| **Snake Case** <br> | sensor_type |
| **Camel Case** <br> | ckLength |

## Table and attribute rules

- **Table names** should be in the **singular** form.
- **Table names** representing entities should use nouns, e.g **Sensor**, **Station**, **Fruit**.
- **Table names** should follow Pascal case, e.g **HumiditySensor**, **MeteorologicalStation**.
- For **relations between two tables** (many to many relationships), use both table names with a verb in between to describe what that action is or separate both table names with **_**, e.g **User_has_Role** or **User_Role**. 
- **Table attributes** should follow Snake case, e.g **value**, **sensor_type**, **quantity_of_sensors**.
- **Primary Keys** should be simple and preferably one word long, e.g **id**, **name**, **code**.
- **Foreign Keys** should identify the foreign table and a description may be added to the end of the name, e.g **sensor_id**, **sensor_id_water**.
- **Constraints** should follow Camel case, start with ck, or the correct acronym displayed in the table bellow, e.g **pkSensorId**, **unSensorName**.

## Acronyms for constraints

| **_Acronym_** | **_Description_**|
|:-----|:------|
|**FK**| Foreign Key|
|**PK**| Primary Key|
|**NN**| Not Null|
|**UN**| Unique|

## Data Glossary
| **_Business Concept_** | **_Description_**|
|:-----|:------|
|**Agricultural Installation**| Typically a farm consisting of a set of plots and buildings. |
|**Buildings**| Stables for animals, garages for machines and implements, warehouses for crops, inputs and animal feed, and irrigation systems including agricultural ponds. |
|**Plot**| The sectors, also called sectors or fields, are characterized by a designation, area and crops. |
|**Crop**| Plant species used in agriculture with the aim of being consumed by humans/animals. |
|**Production Factors**| All products that are applied to the soil or plants in order to improve and nourish the soil and plants, prevent disease, correct imbalances, and combat pests and diseases. |
|**Watering system**| Set of equipment capable of delivering water or aqueous solutions containing production factors (e.g., fertilizers) to crops. | 
|**Sprinkler irrigation**| Which water is distributed to plants through sprinklers or water cannons. | 
|**Drip**| Works by slowly applying water directly to the soil. |
|**Spray Irrigation**| Very similar to sprinkler irrigation, differing only in the device that emanates the water, creating a “shower” type effect. |
|**Pipe System**| The water is transported along the farm through a system of pipes. |
|**Meteorological Station**| Set of sensors that measure atmospheric quantities such as wind, temperature, humidity, radiation and pressure. |
|**Sensor**| Device which detects or measures a physical property and records, indicates, or otherwise responds to it. |
|**Field book**| Formal document (mandatory) that allows you to record all relevant agricultural operations carried out on the holding, in particular: fertilizations, Summary of data collected from meteorological and soil sensors, Record of harvests including product, quantity harvested, date and plots, Performed irrigation, quantities, date of realization, installment. |
|**Agricultural Manager**| Person who manages crops on the plots, carries out the different cultural actions and records them in the Field book. |
|**Client**| Person who orders and consumes agricultural products, distributed in the form of baskets. |
|**Conductor**| Person who collects the baskets on the farm and deposits them at the distribution hubs. |
|**Distribution Manager**| Person who manages the process of collecting and transporting agricultural products between farms, Hubs and subsequent collection by customers. | 
|**Distribution Hub**| Specialized warehouse that serves as a hub to strategically store finished goods, streamline the picking and packing process, and ship goods out to another location or final destination. |

## Technology

A database is an organized collection of structured information, typically stored electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS). Together, the data and the DBMS, combined with the applications that are associated with them, are referred to as a database system, often called database.

The most common data within databases operating today is typically modeled in rows and columns in a series of tables to make processing and data querying efficient. The data can then be easily accessed, managed, modified, updated, controlled, and organized. The majority of the databases use Structured Query Language (SQL) for writing and querying data. The four most used SQL databases are:

* Oracle 
* MySQL
* Microsoft SQL Server
* PostgreSQL

Although, there are other types of databases that do not follow such specification, this type of databases are called non-relational databases. A non-relational or (NO-SQL) database, allows unstructured and semi structured (schemas) data to be stored and manipulated (in contrast to a relational database, which defines how all data inserted into the database must be composed). NO-SQL databases became more popular as web applications also grew, became more common and complex. The four most used NO-SQL/non-relational databases databases are:

* MongoDB
* MarkLogic
* ScyllaDB
* Apache Cassandra

Relational databases, as mentioned above, work with structured data, they support ACID transactional consistency and provide a flexible way to structure data that is impossible with other database technologies. Some of the most important features of relational databases are the ability to join two tables and make them look like one, join multiple tables together on key fields, create complex indexes that perform correctly and are easy to manage, and maintain data integrity in order to have maximum data accuracy.
When you have more than one piece of information that need to be related to one another, it is important to store them in a relational database, otherwise, you would just have unrelated facts and figures without any type of connection.

#### There are many benefits that come from using a relational database for managing your data needs, some are:

### Easy Use
Users can easily access/retrieve any type of information within seconds without indulging in the complexity of the database.

### Model Simplicity
The relational databases model are much simpler than other type of databases. It does not require any complex queries because it has no query processing or structuring.

### Normalization
Normalization is a method that breaks down information into manageable chunks to reduce storage size. Data can be broken up into different levels with every level requiring preparation before moving into another level.

### Data Integrity
Relational databases are also used for data integrity as they provide consistency. The data integrity ensures other benefits of relational databases.

### Accuracy
A very important point of relational databases is that they are strictly defined and well-organized, so that the data does not get duplicated.

### Security
Data is very much secure as SQL databases allow only authorized users to directly access the data.

#### This type of database has all this benefits, but it is not perfect and has some limitations, some of them are:

### Cost
The relational database system has a very high cost to set up and maintain. The initial cost of the software alone can be quite pricey for smaller businesses, and it gets worse when they have to hire professional technicians that must have experience in that specific kind of program.

### Physical Storage
SQL databases require a lot of physical memory because each operation performed depends on separate storage. The requirements of physical memory may also increase along with the increase of data.

### Lack of Scalability
When trying to use relational databases over multiple servers, its structure changes and ultimately, its performance is affected. As the database becomes larger or more distributed with a greater number of servers, this will have negative effects like latency and availability issues affecting overall performance.

### Decrease in performance over time
The relational database can become slower. When there is a large number of data in the system, it causes an increase in complexity, that can lead to slow response times over queries or even complete failure for them depending on how many people are logged into the server at a given time.

### In this project, our team decided we were going to use a Relational Database (SQL Database) because it has more upsides than downsides and also because the team decided that its more appropriated for this kind of project
